So far we use p5.js's shape functions to
draw our shapes like this rectangle here.
but if we want to draw more complex
shapes we need to go beyond this and
to do so we might need to want to look into what
are these shapes actually. so all the shapes even
the ones we draw through the p5.js functions are
made up of individual points which are connected
to one another with a line and if we
have a bunch of points connected by lines
which then are also closed then we're talking
about a polygon. and if we're going even into
the third dimension then we usually have a set
of polygons that define the shape of a 3d object.
So if we go back to our rectangle. Our
rectangle is made up of four points,
the four corners. So to just visualize this, i
will draw a couple of points on the exact corners.
I will change the strokeWeight here and
now i will simply draw a couple of points
so we start in the upper left corner and then
we add the other points so the next one is
at 300/100, 300/300 and 100/300. Now we
have the rectangle that we have drawn before
and now we need to connect them through lines
and there's a really nice set of functions that
helps us do this so if we want to start a
new shape the function is called beginShape
so everything we write now will become part of our
shape and to draw the individual points which are
then connected to one another. We have the vertex
command. I would simply replace all the points
here through the vertex command and the vertex
command now also takes the x and y coordinate as
a position, where our shape should be drawn. And
in the end when we're done we simply say endShape.
And if we save this, we can now see how the shape
function uses the vertex command to go through
all our points. But our shape is not closed.
What we can do to close our shape is for once
simply repeat the first point in the end,
but there is a more elegant solution to this.
If you simply want to connect the last to the
first point we can write CLOSE inside the endShape
command and then it's done automatically
for us. Now with this shape we can do
everything we have done before with the p5.js
shapes. For example we could add a fill here
and then our shape receives the fill. We
can create very complex shapes using just
these vertexes commands. Of course we cannot
only draw straight lines we can also draw
curves. Those are a little bit more complex and i
will tell you more about these in the next videos.